[Music]
hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is my review of the Microsoft
Surface book now I do a lot of reviews
on to one devices like I love the idea
of hybrid devices because I like having
less stuff but for the most part I find
it difficult to use a two-in-one device
as my daily driver
I find them often underpowered or like
the tablet isn't very good or the laptop
isn't very good but when Microsoft
revealed this thing and they showed that
you could remove the screen and use it
as a tablet I was like stop my penis can
only get so erect so I've had this thing
for a week I've used it every single day
and I've edited two videos on it
including the one you're watching right
now here are my thoughts okay so instead
of a slide-out tray like other surface
devices this box opens up from the top
and inside you get the surface book the
stylus some pamphlets and the charger
the device has a magnesium casing like
we've come to expect from the entire
surface line the finish feels identical
to basically every other surface product
and that's a good thing it feels durable
it feels premium and it looks good and I
like the polish the windows logo up here
so it's the same magnesium finish on the
bottom and it has two rubber strips that
give the surface book a little grip when
it's on a table we'll talk about the
hinge later but when you press this
button here you can remove the screen
from the surface book and it functions
as a powerful tablet which Microsoft has
called the clipboard we have a power
button and a volume rocker on one side
and a headphone jack over here and then
along the length of this entire side we
have connections so these two are for
attaching it to the base and these three
are for transferring data between the
two halves when they're connected and
the middle one can also be used for
charging the clipboard separately if you
need it now inside this clipboard is a
fully functional Windows 10 PC so this
unit here has a skylake core i5 running
at 2.4 gigahertz and has 8 gigs of ram
256 gigs of storage and Intel HD 520
integrated graphics as well as a
discreet Nvidia chip which isn't in here
but it's in the keyboard base and this
configuration will run you $1,900 us
it's very expensive now that the base
unit starts at 1500 but once you throw
in the Nvidia chip you're looking at
1900 and up the screen is a 13.5 inch
panel running at three thousand by two
thousand pixels so like all current
surface products it has an aspect ratio
of 3 to 2 instead of like the 16 to 10
or 69 like other tablets the
disadvantage is that you get some pretty
heavy letterboxing when you're watching
videos it's not a widescreen right and
then you also lose some width on your
screen when you're editing things with
timelines so for like video or audio
production but the good thing is that
for things like taking notes
reading books or just browsing the web
or doing basically any kind of work one
clipboard mode it's a lot better so for
the purpose of a tune one device a three
by two aspect ratio is definitely the
right choice viewing angles are great
and it's really bright like as bright as
a MacBook Pro dislike and something else
I really like is how dim the screen gets
like you can comfortably view this in
the dark there's an 8 megapixel camera
on the back which gets decent pictures
but come on it's a 13.5 inch tablet you
don't want to be that guy and there's a
5 megapixel camera on the front which
has surprisingly good video quality and
it's used for Microsoft hello it's
basically like a quick way to unlock the
device using facial recognition and it
works really well the tablet experience
is decent it's reasonably lightweight at
one point six pounds but remember it's a
13.5 inch screen so it's a really large
tablet and it's kind of cumbersome when
you use it it's good as a digital
clipboard for sharing things with others
and it's nice and big for illustrations
and any kind of creative work but when
you use it as like a media consumption
device it's really fluid and it's snappy
for browsing the web and watching videos
but it doesn't feel particularly
economic or inviting to use like the
edges are a little sharp and it feels
really industrial but for a large screen
tablet it's
pretty comfortable to use overall as
long as it has battery life and therein
lies the catch the battery life on this
thing is really short Microsoft gives a
rough estimate of around four hours I
got around two to three hours so if
you're watching a longer movie at
maximum brightness you may not be able
to make it through the whole thing the
speakers were ok they're reasonably loud
but the sound quality isn't great for a
clipboard that you occasionally use to
share screen with someone it's pretty
cool but for personal media consumption
a battery life of three hours is too
short so if you're looking for the
Windows experience in a tablet I would
really recommend the surface pro 4 over
the surface book the new surface pen is
an upgrade over the previous generation
so this nib has better texture to it it
doesn't quite feel like writing on paper
when you use it but it's better than
before the eraser on the back is really
cool they got the texture of right and
it legitimately feels like you're
erasing something you'll look for eraser
bits on the screen when you use it so
I've erased a lot of stuff while playing
with it over the past week and the
eraser nub still looks the same it
doesn't seem to wear out quickly you can
click the eraser to start up OneNote and
then you can double click it to take
screenshots and you can hold it to
launch Cortana overall they did a great
job on this pen now I'm not a strong
illustrator but I have a friend who is
and she drew a couple things using the
surface book and like any other tablet
it's inefficient to draw without a
keyboard because you lose your keyboard
shortcuts but overall she thought it was
pretty cool and I quote I thought it was
pretty cool
ok the clipboard attaches to the
keyboard using these two tabs here so
you line up the two tabs with the slots
you place it in and then you get a fully
functional laptop and to detach it again
you press the same button here's a cool
fact there's a click you hear when they
detaches which is supposedly a sound
that they put out through the speaker's
just so you know it's been detached
because the actual mechanism is pretty
quiet the connection is strong and it
seems reliable like you can carry it
around holding just the screen the
mechanism seems to work well but I had a
couple times when the screen wouldn't
disconnects properly and I had to reboot
the device to get it working again it's
not a huge issue but I'm hoping a
software update will fix this the hinge
itself has this Mecca
that kind of rolls it outward as you
open it so I don't know about its
long-term durability but mechanically it
works really well
but because of this hinge it has this
gap and I've been staring at this thing
for over a week and it hasn't grown on
me at all if anything I've found it more
and more distasteful like I like the way
it looks when it opens but then the gap
bugs me when it's closed and when you
keep it in your bag lint and dust just
love to go into that gap and there's a
lot of moving parts in there so we'll
have to see how it holds up over time
when you connect the screen to the
keyboard base you get a laptop and I'm
gonna cut right to the chase here this
is an excellent laptop the keyboard is
nice the key travel is good three-stage
backlight is good the layout could be
better I mean the page up and page down
are up in the function keys which might
annoy you if you use those a lot and I
don't like the up and down arrows which
are the same height as the left and
right keys like I find a little
disorienting sometimes and I'll
accidentally press shift when I'm trying
to press up but aside from that it's a
good keyboard the glass trackpad is also
pretty good I thought it'd be as good as
a MacBook trackpad because I heard the
word glass and it's really close but
there's still the occasional skip
especially in Chrome so I think it's
just the software thing but the texture
on the glass is a little sticky or just
rougher than a MacBook texture but I
feel like I'm just nitpicking here it's
seriously the best trackpad have used on
a Windows machine to date okay going
around the base on the left you get two
USB 3.0 ports a pretty shallow SD card
slot and on the right side you get a
mini DisplayPort and the surface connect
slot there's only one power button on
this device so you still have to use the
one on the top of the screen even in
laptop mode now the screen does have a
little bit of a wobble when you move it
around or when you poke at it but it's
not a big deal like basically every
notebook screen wobbles when you use it
as a touchscreen
okay let's talk performance the drive
has a fast read speed at around 1500
miles per second but the write speed is
surprisingly slow at less than 200 miles
per second so I edited a couple videos
with the surface book and it's not bad I
mean 1080p edits are smooth 4k edits are
a little choppy err but it's still
pretty usable in comparison to the
13-inch I 5 MacBook Pro 1080p edits feel
identical but the MacBook Pro
is noticeably smoother to edit on in 4k
if I had to guess I think it's the slow
right speed on the surface book like if
you're writing preview files and the
media cache at a right speed of 170
Meg's per second it's got to be hurting
performance now the easy solution is
just to use fast external drives for
edits render speeds were faster on the
surface book with NVIDIA chips so it's
about 10 to 15 percent faster than the
MacBook for 4k renders so this Nvidia
chip has 384 CUDA cores so it resembles
a low-end max-flow chip so it's like a
920 or like a 940 m but it has 1 gig of
ddr4 AM which is less RAM than your
average 940 m it's got faster RAM
because it's ddr5 but less ram okay
let's talk about games the screen has a
3 by 2 aspect ratio so some games will
have block bars on the left and right if
they don't support the resolution so
light games like csgo they run nicely on
this device I've had graphics on high
and I was getting around 50 frames per
second at 1080p MOBAs like dota 2 and
here's of the storm to get pretty good
frame rates like I tried to push the
graphics quality and I was getting
around 35 to 40 frames per second on
extreme graphics at 1080p so you can
easily hit 50 60 frames per second on
high graphics settings games like rust
or any kind of like online open-world
environment those don't run well
probably because of that one gig of
video RAM so at fastest settings at
1080p I was getting around 1520 frames
per second I wouldn't really call that
playable Starcraft runs well I haven't
played it in a while and I got rekt but
I was easily getting 50 frames per
second on high settings at 1080p
I didn't notice much throttling in
game's framerate seemed pretty steady
and everything I played and the
temperatures are normal like it's a
little warm on the clipboard screen but
the keyboard stays relatively cool even
under load it's a similar temperature to
a MacBook Pro when it's under load the
fan noise is silent at idle and is about
30 decibels when it's under load so very
tolerable it's a 60 watt AC adapter and
like the surface pro it has that USB
plug on the side the battery life on the
laptop is fantastic like I can easily
break 10 hours
of regular use with the screen at 80%
playing games frame rates take a big hit
when you're playing on battery but I got
around three to three and a half hours
which is actually really good and in
case you're wondering when the clipboard
is out of batteries and you plug it up
to the base the connection doesn't like
refuel the clipboard using the batteries
from the base you need to actually have
the charging cable plugged in to juice
it up all right the title of this video
is the almost perfect tune one and I
really mean that if I was tasked to
re-engineer the surface book there's
very little I'd change I'd keep the
screen I'd keep the keyboard I'd keep
the trackpad I'd keep the magnesium
build I'd keep the graphics cards
I mean I'd even keep the ports there's
no USB see but it's 2015 I think we're
good without USB see for another year
one thing that I would change or at
least try to change is that hinge
functionally it's fantastic it works
really well but it doesn't look very
pretty and I think is gonna deter a lot
of people from purchasing this device
just because of how it looks it's a very
expensive device very expensive so you
kind of expect your product with a look
as good as they perform at this price
point the other thing is that it's not a
very balanced two-in-one device it's an
excellent laptop and it's a very laptop
focused device but the tablet component
is it's not an afterthought it's very
functional and it works well but it's
not as good as the laptop component and
that to me makes it less than perfect it
would I would consider this a really
good product for like a medical student
and engineering student architecture
student basically any kind of
professional faculty student this is a
fantastic device a very expensive device
but a fantastic device same thing goes
for people in the workplace if you can
use both of the components it's an
excellent device for that but if you're
a casual user and you just want to like
consume media or play video games this
is not that device you'll have fun
they'll love it but it's a very
expensive device and you won't get
I'll be out of it that's the end of this
review hope you guys liked it give some
thumbs if you did subs if you loved it
it's been nice I'll see you guys next
time
[Music]